h1. Thinking Sphinx with Raspell

This library adds Aspell/Raspell support to "Thinking Sphinx":http://pat.github.io/thinking-sphinx

h2. Installation

You'll need "the Aspell library":http://www.aspell.net (easily compiled by source, or installed via Homebrew or MacPorts). Don't forget to install the English library as well - there's instructions for both in Evan Weaver's "Raspell README":http://github.com/fauna/raspell.

Once that's set up, grab the gem:

<pre><code>gem install thinking-sphinx-raspell</code></pre>

You'll want to add the gem to your @Gemfile@:

<pre><code>gem 'thinking-sphinx-raspell', '1.1.2',
  :require => 'thinking_sphinx/raspell'</code></pre>

Or, if using older versions of Rails, your @config/environment.rb@ file:

<pre><code>config.gem 'thinking-sphinx-raspell',
  :lib     => 'thinking_sphinx/raspell',
  :version => '>= 1.1.2'</code></pre>

Or, if you wish to do a manual require yourself:

<pre><code>require 'thinking_sphinx/raspell'</code></pre>

h2. Usage

By default, Thinking Sphinx will not overwrite your search query, but you can view suggestions:

<pre><code>@articles = Article.search 'pnacakes'
@articles.suggestion? #=> true
@articles.suggestion  #=> 'pancakes'</code></pre>

You can also choose to redo the search using the provided suggestion:

<pre><code>@articles.redo_with_suggestion
@articles.each do |article|
  # ...
end</code></pre>

h2. Configuration

You can customise the following settings - either in your @config/environment.rb@ file, or perhaps in an initializer. Example syntax below highlights the current defaults.

<pre><code>config = ThinkingSphinx::Configuration.instance
config.raspell.dictionary             = 'en'
config.raspell.suggestion_mode        = :normal
config.raspell.options['ignore-case'] = true</code></pre>

You can look at the available options using the following two collections:

<pre><code>config = ThinkingSphinx::Configuration.instance
config.raspell.dictionaries     #=> ['en', 'en_GB', 'en_US', ... ]
config.raspell.suggestion_modes #=> [:ultra, :fast, :normal, :badspellers]</code></pre>

If you require more control over the Aspell options you can also pass in your own instance:

<pre><code>config = ThinkingSphinx::Configuration.instance
config.raspell.speller = Aspell.new('en_GB')</code></pre>

If you need more documentation, you can check out the YARD files "on rdoc.info":http://rdoc.info/projects/freelancing-god/thinking-sphinx-raspell.  This isn't a big library, though - what you see in this readme is pretty much what you get.

h2. Limitations

* Only checks normal query strings, not field-specific queries via the @:conditions@ hash.

Patches are very much welcome - I would like to address this last remaining limitation.

h2. Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009-2011 "Pat Allan":http://freelancing-gods.com. Released under an MIT licence.
